docs/index.md, before:

# Introduction

!!! info "Documentation Updates"
    Creation date: September 2023 - Updated 10/03/2023

This repository includes a set of demo applications and IaC to create Amazon MQ with different engine types.

## Audiances

The main readers of this website are people interested in AWS and open-source messaging systems.

* Solution architects
* Lead developer for new distributed system solutions, with interest in AWS and messaging systems

This site is a companion of [AWS Studies site](https://jbcodeforce.github.io/aws-studies/) and my [EDA book](https://jbcodeforce.github.io/eda-studies/).

## Problem

The AWS MQ workshops contain a lot of information to get started with Amazon MQ. This repositoryy addresses some of the specific subjects not covered in detail in those workshops: JMS programming model, clear separation between producer and consumer applications, different ActiveMQ release support, running locally with docker. Addressing unit testing, integration test, reactive messaging and reactive programming.

For the IaC, we use AWS CDK, with different stack to be able to reuse common infrastructure like VPC, IAM roles, Cloud9 environment...

## [Active MQ](https://activemq.apache.org/)

Active MQ is an Open Source software, multi-protocol, java based message broker. The Artemis version is supporting JMS 2.0. It supports message load balancing, HA. Multiple connected "master" brokers can dynamically respond to consumer demand by moving messages between the nodes in the background.


### Solutions in this repository

* [Request-ReplyTo order ochestrator and participant based on JMS - ActiveMQ Classic release](./classic-req-reply-jms.md)
* [Point to Point JMS based producer and consumer - ActiveMQ Artemis release](./pt-to-pt-jms.md)
* [Request-ReplyTo order ochestrator and participant based on JMS - ActiveMQ Artemis release](./req-reply-jms.md)
* [AMQP Quarkus app point to point - ActiveMQ Artemis release](./amq-activemq.md)
* [Infrastructure as code - VPC stack]()

### AWS Samples

* [Github amazon-mq-workshop](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-mq-workshop/tree/master)
* [Github Amazon MQ Network of Brokers samples](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-mq-network-of-brokers)

## [Rabbit MQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/)

The other Open Source project.

To Be done.

## Interesting content to read

* [AWS Active MQ Workshop](https://catalog.us-east-1.prod.workshops.aws/workshops/0b534eb9-fdfb-49f0-8df4-ebccca71a9eb/en-US)
* [Amazon MQ RabbitMQ workshop](https://catalog.us-east-1.prod.workshops.aws/workshops/88db3818-a8bb-4f5c-acf9-e57fa7a129b6/en-US)
* [Create broker AWS CLI command.](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/mq/create-broker.html)
* [Amazon MQ CLI](https://github.com/antonwierenga/amazonmq-cli).
* [Implementing enterprise integration patterns with AWS messaging services: point-to-point channels.](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/implementing-enterprise-integration-patterns-with-aws-messaging-services-point-to-point-channels/)

Commit message:

complete failover scenario of activemq, and add cdk vpc

docs/index.md, after:

# Introduction

!!! info "Documentation Updates"
    Creation date: September 2023 - Updated 10/05/2023

This repository includes a set of demo applications and IaC to create Amazon MQ with different engine types.

## Audience

The main readers of this website are people interested in AWS and open-source messaging systems.

* Solution architects
* Lead developer for new distributed system solutions, with interest in AWS and messaging systems

This site is a companion of [AWS Studies site](https://jbcodeforce.github.io/aws-studies/) and my [EDA book](https://jbcodeforce.github.io/eda-studies/).

## Problem

The AWS MQ workshops contain a lot of information to get started with Amazon MQ. This repository addresses some of the specific subjects not covered in detail in those workshops: JMS programming model, clear separation between producer and consumer applications, different ActiveMQ release support, running locally with docker, failover testing. Addressing unit testing, integration test, reactive messaging and reactive programming.

For the IaC, we use AWS CDK, with different stacks to be able to reuse common infrastructure like VPC, IAM roles, and an optional Cloud9 environment, and finally the broker configuration.

## [Active MQ](https://activemq.apache.org/)

Active MQ is an Open Source software, multi-protocol, java based message broker. The Artemis version is supporting JMS 2.0. It supports message load balancing, HA. Multiple connected "master" brokers can dynamically respond to consumer demand by moving messages between the nodes in the background.


### Solutions in this repository

* [Request-ReplyTo order ochestrator and participant based on JMS - ActiveMQ Classic release](./classic-req-reply-jms.md)
* [Point to Point JMS based producer and consumer - ActiveMQ Artemis release](./pt-to-pt-jms.md)
* [Request-ReplyTo order ochestrator and participant based on JMS - ActiveMQ Artemis release](./req-reply-jms.md)
* [AMQP Quarkus app point to point - ActiveMQ Artemis release](./amq-activemq.md)
* [Infrastructure as code - VPC stack]()
* [Infrastructure as code - ActiveMQ active/standby topoloyg stack]()

### AWS Samples

* [Github amazon-mq-workshop](https://github.com/aws-samples/amazon-mq-workshop/tree/master)
* [Github Amazon MQ Network of Brokers samples](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-mq-network-of-brokers)

## [Rabbit MQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/)

The other Open Source project.

To Be done.

## Interesting content to read

* [AWS Active MQ Workshop](https://catalog.us-east-1.prod.workshops.aws/workshops/0b534eb9-fdfb-49f0-8df4-ebccca71a9eb/en-US)
* [Amazon MQ RabbitMQ workshop](https://catalog.us-east-1.prod.workshops.aws/workshops/88db3818-a8bb-4f5c-acf9-e57fa7a129b6/en-US)
* [Create broker AWS CLI command.](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/mq/create-broker.html)
* [Amazon MQ CLI](https://github.com/antonwierenga/amazonmq-cli).
* [Implementing enterprise integration patterns with AWS messaging services: point-to-point channels.](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/implementing-enterprise-integration-patterns-with-aws-messaging-services-point-to-point-channels/)
