docs/req-reply-jms.md, before:

# JMS based request-replyTo demonstration


This is a simple example of request-response on two queues:

![](./diagrams/req-replyto.drawio.png)

This code use client acknowledgement, and replyTo queue. It does not use CDI for bean injection but code base instantiation of the ConnectionFactor.

## Requirements

* Expose GET, POST, PUT `/orders` api
* Mockup a repository in memory
* On POST or PUT operations, order messages are sent to another service (the participant) to act on them via a `orders` queue, and get the response to `orders-reply` queue.
* Support once and only once semantic
* Expose a POST /orders/simulation to run n order creation with random data, to support a failover demonstration.

## Running Locally

While in development mode, under the `activeMQ/request-replyto` folder:

1. Start Active MQ: ` docker compose up -d`
1. Start each application with `quarkus dev`

    ```sh
    cd jms-orchestrator
    quarkus dev
    cd jms-participant
    quarkus dev
    ```
    
1. Orchestrator Application URL: [http://localhost:8081/](http://localhost:8081/) and swagger-ui
1. See ActiveMQ console: [http://localhost:8161/](http://localhost:8161/), admin/adminpassw0rd


## Demonstration scripts

1. Post new order using the exposed API by going under `request-replyto/e2e` folder:

    ```sh
    cd request-replyto/e2e
    ./postOrder.sh
    ```

1. In the Orchestrator trace we should see  the following message, from the Resource API, then getting the response from the participant of the order process as the status for order changed from `pending` to `assigned`

    ```sh
    processing new order: { "sku": P05,"price": 100.0,"quantity": 2,"status": pending }
    17:34:32 INFO  [or.ac.or.in.re.OrderRepositoryMem] (executor-thread-1) Save in repository 7cfef528
    17:34:32 INFO  [or.ac.or.in.ms.OrderMessageProcessing] (Thread-2 (ActiveMQ-client-global-threads)) Received message: b1c0191f-4533-44f9-b56d-18ec67baa1fc,7cfef528,P05,100.0,2,assigned
    ```

1. On the participant side the log looks like:

    ```sh
    Received message: b1c0191f-4533-44f9-b56d-18ec67baa1fc,7cfef528,P05,100.0,2,pending
    17:34:32 INFO  [or.ac.pa.in.ms.OrderMessageConsumer] (Thread-1 (ActiveMQ-client-global-threads)) Reponse sent to replyTo queue {"messageID":"b1c0191f-4533-44f9-b56d-18ec67baa1fc","orderID":"7cfef528","sku":"P05","price":100.0,"quantity":2,"status":"assigned"}
    ```

1. We can see the state of the queues in the ActiveMQ Console

![](./images/active-queues.png)

## Code Explanation

The code is under [jms-orchestrator](./activeMQ/request-replyto/jms-orchestrator/) and [jms-participant](./activeMQ/request-replyto/jms-participant), to implement a request-response over queue using JMS.

The Orchestrator is a classical microservice with the order entity as resource. The interesting part is the `OrderMessageProcessing` class. It is JMS implementation code, using one connection to the broker and two JMS session, one for the producer and one for the consumer.

```java
connectionFactory = new ActiveMQConnectionFactory(connectionURLs);
connection = connectionFactory.createConnection(user, password);
connection.setClientID("p-" + System.currentTimeMillis());

initProducer();
initConsumer();
connection.start();    
```

As the class is MessageListener, the JMSconsumer thread is associate to it, and the `OrderMessageProcessing` class processes the replyTo queue messages in the onMessage method.

```java
 public void onMessage(Message msg) {
       TextMessage rawMsg = (TextMessage) msg;
       OrderMessage om;
        try {
            om = mapper.readValue(rawMsg.getText(),OrderMessage.class);
            logger.info("Received message: " + om.toString());
            Order o = OrderMessage.toOrder(om);
            service.processParticipantResponse(o);
            msg.acknowledge();
        }
        catch (JsonProcessingException | JMSException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
```

Two implementation practices: having a different data model for the message than the business entity, and use the service class to implement the business logic.

On the consumer side, the class is also a MessageListener, but also a producer to the different queue.
Each consumer performs acknowledgement by code. Acknowledging a consumed message automatically acknowledges the receipt of all messages that have been consumed by the current session.


## Deploy on AWS

1. First build the docker images for each service using `buildAll.sh` command: Change the name of the image to adapt to your ECR repository.

    ```sh
    cd jms-orchestrator
    buildAll.sh
    docker push toECR_repository
    cd jms-participant
    buildAll.sh
    docker push toECR_repository
    ```

1. If not already done, use CDK to deploy VPC, Brokers, and Cloud9.
1. Use CDK to deploy the two apps on ECS Fargate.

    ```sh
    cd infra
    cdk deploy
    ```

Commit message:

add classic active mq sample, update doc

docs/req-reply-jms.md, after:

# JMS based request-replyTo demonstration

The application is the same as the classic implementation as described in [this note](./classic-req-reply-jms.md), except it uses the Artemis release with Jakarta JMS 3.0 API.

## Running Locally

While in development mode, under the `activeMQ/request-replyto` folder:

1. Start Active MQ: ` docker compose up -d`
1. Start each application with `quarkus dev`

    ```sh
    cd jms-orchestrator
    quarkus dev
    cd jms-participant
    quarkus dev
    ```

1. Orchestrator Application URL: [http://localhost:8081/](http://localhost:8081/) and swagger-ui
1. See ActiveMQ console: [http://localhost:8161/](http://localhost:8161/), admin/adminpassw0rd


## Demonstration scripts

1. Post new order using the exposed API by going under `request-replyto/e2e` folder:

    ```sh
    cd request-replyto/e2e
    ./postOrder.sh
    ```

1. In the Orchestrator trace we should see  the following message, from the Resource API, then getting the response from the participant of the order process as the status for order changed from `pending` to `assigned`

    ```sh
    processing new order: { "sku": P05,"price": 100.0,"quantity": 2,"status": pending }
    17:34:32 INFO  [or.ac.or.in.re.OrderRepositoryMem] (executor-thread-1) Save in repository 7cfef528
    17:34:32 INFO  [or.ac.or.in.ms.OrderMessageProcessing] (Thread-2 (ActiveMQ-client-global-threads)) Received message: b1c0191f-4533-44f9-b56d-18ec67baa1fc,7cfef528,P05,100.0,2,assigned
    ```

1. On the participant side the log looks like:

    ```sh
    Received message: b1c0191f-4533-44f9-b56d-18ec67baa1fc,7cfef528,P05,100.0,2,pending
    17:34:32 INFO  [or.ac.pa.in.ms.OrderMessageConsumer] (Thread-1 (ActiveMQ-client-global-threads)) Reponse sent to replyTo queue {"messageID":"b1c0191f-4533-44f9-b56d-18ec67baa1fc","orderID":"7cfef528","sku":"P05","price":100.0,"quantity":2,"status":"assigned"}
    ```

1. We can see the state of the queues in the ActiveMQ Console

    ![](./images/active-queues.png)

1. To demonstrate connection failure and reconnect, start a long runnning simulation, stop the broker and relaunch it. The messages should continue to flow between the stop apps. Be sure to have build the producer and consumer images. Here are the commands:

    ```sh
    # build OCI image for participant and orchestrator app
    
    request-replyto $: docker compose up -d
    docker ps
    # 3cd51215160f   quay.io/artemiscloud/activemq-artemis-broker  0.0.0.0:5672->5672/tcp, 8080/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8161->8161/tcp, 0.0.0.0:61616->61616/tcp, 8443/tcp   artemis
    
    ```


## Code Explanation

The code is under [jms-orchestrator](./activeMQ/request-replyto/jms-orchestrator/) and [jms-participant](./activeMQ/request-replyto/jms-participant), to implement a request-response over queue using JMS.

The Orchestrator is a classical microservice with the order entity as resource. The interesting part is the `OrderMessageProcessing` class. It is JMS implementation code, using one connection to the broker and two JMS sessions, one for the producer and one for the consumer.

```java
connectionFactory = new ActiveMQConnectionFactory(connectionURLs);
connection = connectionFactory.createConnection(user, password);
connection.setClientID("p-" + System.currentTimeMillis());

initProducer();
initConsumer();
connection.start();    
```

As the class is MessageListener, the JMSconsumer thread is associate to it, and the `OrderMessageProcessing` class processes the replyTo queue messages in the onMessage method.

```java
 public void onMessage(Message msg) {
       TextMessage rawMsg = (TextMessage) msg;
       OrderMessage om;
        try {
            om = mapper.readValue(rawMsg.getText(),OrderMessage.class);
            logger.info("Received message: " + om.toString());
            Order o = OrderMessage.toOrder(om);
            service.processParticipantResponse(o);
            msg.acknowledge();
        }
        catch (JsonProcessingException | JMSException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
```

Two implementation practices: having a different data model for the message than the business entity, and use the service class to implement the business logic.

On the consumer side, the class is also a MessageListener, but also a producer to the different queue.
Each consumer performs acknowledgement by code. Acknowledging a consumed message automatically acknowledges the receipt of all messages that have been consumed by the current session.


## Deploy on AWS

1. First build the docker images for each service using `buildAll.sh` command: Change the name of the image to adapt to your ECR repository.

    ```sh
    cd jms-orchestrator
    buildAll.sh
    docker push toECR_repository
    cd jms-participant
    buildAll.sh
    docker push toECR_repository
    ```

1. If not already done, use CDK to deploy VPC, Brokers, and Cloud9.
1. Use CDK to deploy the two apps on ECS Fargate.

    ```sh
    cd infra
    cdk deploy
    ```
